Creating the obstacles.
In this video, we'll cover creating movable and immovable objects, and we'll add spinning coins which
are collectible by the player.
Here's the task breakdown.
We'll add the cube movable prefab, and we'll add the cube immovable prefab along with its script.
We'll add a coin prefab and its script to handle spinning and being collected by the player.
For the project, we'll open up section six, Video three and the scene.
Crazy Ball three.
All right, Here we are inside Unity.
Let's go ahead and open up our crazy ball three scene.
Give it a play.
So what's new in this is we have objects within the walls.
We've got different platforms.
We've got different movable and immovable objects.
So the darker cubes, I can't move and the lighter cubes I can move them.
So it just gives a little visual variety.
Also, as I'm collecting these coins, you can see I collide with them and they disappear.
So they instantly disappear.
And of course they're spinning around just for a nice visual effect.
And also cast shadows, which is cool.
So let's focus on just how the coin is set up.
Let's do that together from scratch.
So here we are.
Let's take a look at the.
Pick up prototype object.
Just double check.
When we see this, I'm going to drag out the right one.
Okay, So let's talk about converting this into our coin.
So first thing, we want it to be a little bit higher off the ground.
Uh, you could make a call.
If this is the right size for us, I'm going to say we want it to be a little bit smaller.
So I scale it down.
Checking the scale against the size of our character.
I think that looks pretty good.
Then I've got a gold texture setup.
We could use that.
It's often in games that we want our coins to look like gold coins.
So we'll use that same look.
And then let's get the code going on.
So I've already created a script for.
The queen.
And to do that, we'll need a collider as well.
So I'm going to add a box collider and I can go ahead and give a look at the box collider just to make
sure it's sized.
Right?
But it looks pretty good to me.
And then let's take a look at our coin script.
This is really the bulk of our work here, some scripting.
So in the coin, first of all, I track if it's alive or not, I set it alive to true.
Now, typically you can keep the amount of behavior alive and just delete it when you're ready for it
not to be alive.
But here I needed this bull for an extra reason.
Talk about it in a second.
So in the update, I rotate the graphics.
I'm doing rotation based on how much do I want it to rotate per frame.
And I'm using a crazy ball constants class to handle that.
So in here I've got some isolated variables so that it's really easy to tweak.
So you can see that it's going to units in the Y direction every frame then.
Back in the coin.
Hear something from outside is going to call this public, destroy me.
And what's going to happen inside is I'm going to use that is alive to market false, and then I immediately
destroy the game object.
It's not quite obvious yet why I'm using this as a live, but in a future video we're going to see that
instead of instantly destroying it.
Like now, I'm going to use a programmatic motion to have it slowly fade away for some polish.
So this is just the setup for that.
Now, how do we detect the ball and the coin?
Well, I've chosen to put that inside the crazy ball here, so we're going to use trigger enter.
So that's important that then I go into the coins Collider and I set is trigger.
So by setting this trigger here, then the crazy ball, when it's going to get into the same collider
area as the coin, the on trigger enter is going to fire.
I could choose to put this trigger, enter code inside the coin or inside the ball.
Either one is fine.
I know in the future of this game I want the crazy ball to collide with multiple different types of
objects.
So I'm going to put all that here in the same spot.
So this is the nice spot for me.
So here I detect and I collect the coin.
I check the tag of what I'm colliding with to make sure it's the coin tag.
Take a look at that variable.
It's just coin.
And when I go here and I set up this world, it's important that I set the tag to coin.
Then back here in the crazy ball, I then check to see does the game object in colliding with have the
game object component called coin?
Of course it does because of how I've constructed this, but it's just a good idea to check if it's
null and then I check to see is it still alive?
If so, destroy me that way.
Once we add a programmatic effect as the coin is dissolving away, perhaps shrinking, I don't want
to collide with it again and again and again as it's shrinking.
So I tag.
It is a live false.
Then I won't trigger this again and again.
So destroy me executes exactly one time for each.
So that's it?
That's the way it's set up.
I can go ahead and run the scene now.
And run into there and it disappears perfectly.
That's it.
In the next video, we'll cover adding win loss conditions.